# React Challenges Starter Template with CoPilot

A starter template for doing [the React Challenges](https://courses.cs.northwestern.edu/394/guides/quick-react.html) with CoPilot. This template includes React, TypeScript, Vite, and Vitest for testing, as well as starter markdown files for the first three coding tasks. The markdown files are located in the `docs` folder and can be edited to include your app vision and instructions for CoPilot.

This is intended to be used with the **Commit+Consult+Compare** workflow using a copy of [the React Challenges Report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qWsDUsdwfNsFqdNyPLM7dIYo4suual769t0xHrW0ZyA/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.bmrtiwdc2qde). 

# Requirements

Node 22 or greater.

## Usage

To create a new repository for doing the challenges, run the following commands in your terminal, replacing `your-app-name` with the name of your app.

```
npx gitpick criesbeck/react-copilot your-app-name
cd your-app-name
npm install
code .
```

The above steps will create a new repository on GitHub, clone it to your local machine, install the dependencies, and open the project in Visual Studio Code.

Open your copy of [the React Challenges Report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qWsDUsdwfNsFqdNyPLM7dIYo4suual769t0xHrW0ZyA/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.bmrtiwdc2qde). Put your name at the top. Read the instructions for the first task. 

**Commit**: Go the resources and web to learn about how to do the task. Write the steps you think you need to do in the left column of the first table. Then write the code for those steps. Focus on the important new parts - the parts you need to learn and understand. Don't worry about details such as importing or installing packages. Don't worry about running or debugging the code.

**Consult**: Use CoPilot to do the task. For the first task where you just modify ``index.html``, describe what needs to be changed. See below for what to do for later tasks.

**Compare**: Compare your code to the code generated by CoPilot. If there are differences, try to understand why. If you think your code is better, explain why. If you think CoPilot's code is better, explain why. Write your comparison in the second table.

Repeat this process for each task. There's a report section for each task. 

For the next three tasks, use the markdown files in the `docs` folder. All you need to tell CoPilot for the second task is "``Implement the App described in slice1.md.``". Click the ``+`` button to add ``slice1.md`` to the prompt. 

Use ``slice2.md`` when doing the third task and ``slice3.md`` for fourth task.

For the remaining tasks, create your own Markdown files in the `docs` folder. Do this before you write your plan to do the problem. Writing the prompt will help clarify your goals. Be specific about what CoPilot should not do, to avoid extraneous code from being generated. Look at the three markdown files for examples. Notice how images can be included to show the expected output.


## Scripts

**package.json** defines the following scripts:

| Script           | Description                                         |
| -----------------| --------------------------------------------------- |
| npm run dev      | Runs the app in the development mode.               |
| npm run build    | Builds the app for production to the `dist` folder. |
| npm run serve    | Serves the production build from the `dist` folder. |
| npm test         | Starts a Jest-like test loop                        |
| npm run coverage | Runs the tests, displays code coverage results      |


## Git

If everything is working, set up [your local and remote repositories](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/importing-your-projects-to-github/importing-source-code-to-github/adding-locally-hosted-code-to-github#adding-a-local-repository-to-github-using-git).

## Folder Structure

```
your-app-name
|-- .github
|   └── copilot-instructions.md
|-- docs
|   └── slice1.md
|   └── slice2-image.png
|   └── slice2.md
|   └── slice3-image.png
|   └── slice3.md
├── public
│   └── robots.txt
│   ├── vite.svg
└── src
    ├── index.css
    ├── main.tsx
    ├── vite-env.d.ts
├── .gitignore
├── eslint.config.js
├── index.html
├── package.json
├── README.md
├── tsconfig.app.json
├── tsconfig.son
├── tsconfig.node.json
├── vite.config.ts
```

## Credits

Inspired by [SafdarJamal/vite-template-react](https://github.com/SafdarJamal/vite-template-react).
Expanded to include Vitest and some sample tests.

Thanks to Neeraj Dalal for [gitpick](https://github.com/nrjdalal/gitpick).

Gitignore file created with [the Toptal tool](https://www.toptal.com/developers/gitignore/api/react,firebase,visualstudiocode,macos,windows).


## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the [MIT license](./LICENSE).
